Miss Saigon directed by
soul-g honestly this show is too big for
us our tech schedule was way too short
but we did it anyway
biggest challenge was the helicopters
hover over us they had to fly by us and
of course there's the shows big
signature moment one had to land on the
stage of course we couldn't build a
full-scale prop helicopter so I built a
sound helicopter that had to have
everything except it couldn't have
helicopter wind sounds because the sound
of wind would mask the music and the
voices but it had rotors which we could
hear even when it was far away
it had boomy base that got louder and
louder as it got closer and closer it
had a fuzzy motor and they came over the
roof of the US embassy and had whistling
latencies and coverage nearby and all of
these different elements had to speed up
or slow down together depending on
whether the helicopter keeps going too
fast you're covering the prize wait if I
can change the speed of the rotors what
happens if I change the speed of the
rotors a lot what if right at the moment
when Chris is about to step on the last
US helicopter out of Vietnam we add a
moment when Chris and Kim take one last
look around trying one last time to find
each other and as they take that one
last look the rioting crowd the
whirlwind helicopter blades everything
seems to slow down until the rotors
sound like heartbeats Kim sees him but
Chris doesn't see her so the moment
passes Chris steps aboard
the helicopter sits there like it might
not leave
the rioting crowd makes one last push at
it
but then the helicopter rotors up
curious
yeah I know but you got to be a little
melodramatic to do this show and you've
got to have a helicopter